# How to (Effectively!) Ask Technical Questions

You're busy, something is broken, and you need help.  Maybe you're
confused, scared, or otherwise in a state of distress.  Reaching out
for help is great!  But with a few tips you can be much more
effective, learn some useful skills along the way, and solve your
problem faster.

Imagine whoever you are asking desperately wants to help you but is
also incredibly busy.  How can you make their time the most impactful?

Read on.

# The Steps

## Succinctly Summarize the Problem

Write a one sentence summary of your problem.  Make it tight, clear,
and with the right level of details.

## Start with Searching

Chances are, whatever problem you are having is not new.  Someone else
has hit it before.

You need to begin by investing some time, and the place to start is
searching.  Google, Stack Overflow are good public searches, and your
company's wiki, shared documents, and Slack are all a good places for
internal questions.  You also can try GitHub searching for error
messages and strings that may be helpful.  Finally, some knowledge is
locked away behind logins (Facebook, AWS Forums, etc)... search the
appropriate ones there, too.

If done right, 99% of questions can be answered this way without ever
needing to ask.  Getting good at (ab)using search engines is a
powerful skill to develop.

## Describe Steps You've Taken

You've put some effort into solving the problem (right?), so describe
them.  Indicate things you tried, things you eliminated, things
correlated, etc.  Anticipate what people night need to know so they
don't have to play table tennis with you to make progress.

Also reference manpages and other documentation you've consulted to
confirm the behavior you're expecting vs what you are seeing.

## Minimally Reproduce the Problem

If possible, reproduce the problem with the smallest possible example
you can find.  Yes, this means possibly writing a whole new case to
reproduce it.  Do it.  No one is going to look at a huge pile of code
they can't compile.

Make sure the audience can try your reproduction case, too.  Sites
like [The Rust Playground](https://play.rust-lang.org/) or
[godbolt.org](https://godbolt.org/) are great ways to share code that
your audience can immediately poke at.

## Respond Quickly to Clarifying Questions

Hopefully you won't need to clarify much but, in case you do, be quick
in responding.  Whatever kind soul tried to help you probably is busy
and the faster you respond, the more engaged they will be and the more
rewarding you will both find the response.

# Things to Keep In Mind

## Show Humility and Be Respectful

This is pretty obvious.  Don't be a jerk.  Asking for help is
absolutely okay.  It can feel like you're making yourself vulnerable,
but it's okay.  Show humility and the limits of your knowledge, be
respectful in how you ask and respond, and thank whoever helped you.

But!  Don't ask to ask a question.  Just ask.  You waste people's time
if you ask to ask (see https://dontasktoask.com/ and
https://www.nohello.com for more details).

## Ask in the Right Place

Sometimes your question is perfect but you ask it in the wrong place
or to the wrong person.  Paging someone in the middle of the night for
something that can wait a few hours is Not Cool.  Dropping a question
in the wrong forum or Slack channel is not very cool, either.

Look for the right place to ask.  See if others ask similar questions
and the responses they get.  Be aware of your surroundings and try to
fit the culture and processes around you.

**Never ask questions over Direct Message.  Always ask in public.**
Otherwise you are just bothering someone in a way that benefits no one
else.

## Write Better To Get More Help

Writing succinct, clear questions is critical to all forms of
engineering.  Make sure what you write is easily understood.  This can
be a challenge if you aren't asking a question in your native tongue,
but the reality is, the easier your question is to read, the more
likely you are to get a response.  It may not be fair but it is
reality.

Optimize for the reader.

## Minimize Round Trips

When you ask your question and provide more details, try to anticipate
what someone might ask and provide it.  Not only is this an
optimization to get an answer faster, but it is respectful of the time
of whoever is helping you.

## Satisfy the Audience

Someone helped you!  Others may someday have the same problem!  So
come back and provide closure to your audience.  Report whatever the
problem ended up being.  Close that loop!

## Pay it Forward

Answer questions.  Be helpful.  Create a culture around you of
willingness to help.

## Internalize What You've Learned

Finally, learn from your process.  Learn from the answer but also
learn from the journey.  Reflect on how you could have made it easier
to get help and optimize for the next time.  No matter how much you
learn or how good you get at plying your trade, you will always need
help and always be learning.

# Useful Links and Further Reading

- https://stackoverflow.com/help/how-to-ask
- https://www.catb.org/~esr/faqs/smart-questions.html
- https://dontasktoask.com/
